# Raspberry Pi Camera Motion Detection System

- The purpose of this repository is to use a raspberry pi camera to efficiently detect motion and notify a client somewhere, as well as provide remote access to that device.


## Project State
- This project is currently in a heavily developmental state, where its primary areas of research have been largely explored up to this point and there is a reasonable amount of knowledge, in terms of knowing what needs to be done not necessarily how to do it, in all key areas of future research.

- The organization of this project has, up until the commit that has created this readme, left a lot to be desired. This is a primary point of emphasis as the project continues.

## Project Roadmap
- Most of this information is able to be figured out via commits and reading the todo.md, but that isn't particularly efficient.

- General List Of Things To Do:
    - Refactor latest motion detection code into new file that saves readability.
    - Begin working on creating a primitive notification system that saves a file and emails it to myself.
    - Begin working on a manager system that allows for someone connected to the same network the ability to switch the pi from detecting motion to serving a live feed from the camera and switch back once they disconnect.

## Files Overview
- `python/motion_detector.py`
    - The new motion detection file that I will be building ontop of to complete tasks on the `General List Of Things To Do`.
    - This is the only important file at the moment as it will essentially be the epicenter of all current development. (This file is run on the pi)
- `python/sigma_delta_testing/pi_files/`
    - These files are all run on the pi
- `python/sigma_delta_testing/client_debuggers/`
    - These files are used to debug data coming from the pi, much more useful than you would think.
### Interoperable Files
As mentioned above, some of these files were developed to help me debug/test new things. I kept the more useful ones.  
- `pi_files/raspicam_fast_srv.py` -> `sigma_delta_testing/demo_client.py`
    - Get the original and compute energy image on client 
- `pi_files/test.py` -> `client_debuggers/img_debugger.py` / `client_debuggers/other_debugger.py`
    - Get just the energy image or input image
- `pi_files/basic_motion_detection.py` -> `client_debuggers/img_debugger.py`
    - Display current energy image as generated by the pi (actual live footage of the pi)